+++
title = 'Version 6.1'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -1

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.121.0'
+++

## 6.1.0 (2024-08-02) {#6-1-0}

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`include` shortcode](shortcodes/include) is now able to resolve links to pages as well as resources or files in the file system (the old behavior).

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} To make the asset buster mechanism more robust, some internally used stylesheets where restructured. This generally should not affect your page in any negative way.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`openapi` shortcode](shortcodes/openapi) is now able to resolve links to resources as well as to files in the file system (the old behavior). You can configure to generate warnings or errors during build by setting `openapi.errorlevel` to either `warning` or `error` in your `hugo.toml` if a path can not be resolved.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Shortcodes supporting an `errorlevel` configuration can now have overridden values in the [front matter](authoring/frontmatter/reference) section of each individual page.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme now comes with its own overridden version of the `relref` shortcode.

  While the usage of `relref` is obsolete and discouraged by Hugo for a while, existing installations may use it. In configurations using a `baseURL` with a subdirectory, and having `relativeURLs=false` (the default) Hugo's standard `relref` implementation was failing.

  The shortcode is deactivated by default and can be activated by setting

	{{< multiconfig file=hugo section=params >}}
	disableDefaultRelref = true
	{{< /multiconfig >}}

  in your `hugo.toml`. Only do this if your site fulfills **all of the above assumptions**.
