+++
title = 'Version 8.0'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -0

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.126.3'
+++

## 8.0.0 (2025-09-11) {#8-0-0}

### Hugo 0.126.3

- {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.126.3{{% /badge %}} This release requires a newer Hugo version.

### Breaking

- {{% badge style="breaking" %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} This release provides compatibility for Hugo {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.146.0{{% /badge %}} or newer and required to make some breaking changes to internal file structuring.

  You will be affected by this if you

  - call `dependencies.gotmpl` from your own templates. The theme will now generate a warning. Call `dependencies.html` instead.
  - use [page designs](configuration/customization/designs). The underlying content views aren't allowed to be stored in subdirectories anymore. You have to [move them](configuration/customization/designs#migration-from-relearn-7) up one level.
  - use [self-defined output formats](configuration/customization/outputformats#migration-from-relearn-7).

- {{% badge style="breaking" %}}Breaking{{% /badge %}} Search got much more flexible in its configuration but may [requires changes by you](configuration/sidebar/search/#migration-from-relearn-7).

  In addition you now can use a [different search engine](configuration/sidebar/search#search-adapter--engine), [supply your own template for the generated search index](configuration/sidebar/search#customizing-the-search-index-generation) and [change the layout of the dedicated search page](configuration/sidebar/search#customizing-the-search-page-layout) by setting a different content view.

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The `<h1>` color for the page heading has changed its default value from `--MAIN-TEXT-color` to the more logical `--MAIN-TITLES-TEXT-color`.

  If you experience a change in your page title color after upgrading, just set `--MAIN-TITLES-H1-TEXT-color` to your previously used color.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} For the [`children` shortcode](shortcodes/children#parameter) the final default value if parameter `sort=auto` and no `ordersectionsby` setting was found has changed from `weight` to `default`.

  If your weights are all correctly set you will not recognize a difference. If you have duplicate weights on a level or have not set weights at all while sorting should happen by weight, this change will lead to a deterministic order while previously it didn't.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme has updated its Mermaid dependency to 11.8.0. This adds support for [radar graphs](shortcodes/mermaid#radar) and [treemaps](shortcodes/mermaid#treemap).
