+++
title = 'Version 8.2'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -2

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.126.3'
+++

## 8.2.0 (2025-11-01) {#8-2-0}

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} A [`boxStyle` configuration](shortcodes/notice#defining-own-styles) is now able to get its default values from an already existing predefined or user-defined style using the `style` field in the same way as you use it with many shortcodes.

  Additionally there are two new styles [`link` and `action`](shortcodes/button#by-special-color), displaying items either in the style of the topbar button or like the action buttons of the Mermaid zoom or the code block copy-to-clipboard buttons.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`button` shortcode](shortcodes/button) learned the new parameters `borderless` and `hint`.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Besides the existing variables of `--MAIN-TOPBAR-BORDER-color` and `--MENU-TOPBAR-SEPARATOR-color`, the rest of the topbar colors are now also configurable.

  Namely these are `--TOPBAR-BG-color`, `--TOPBAR-OVERLAY-BG-color`, `--TOPBAR-SEPARATOR-color`, `--TOPBAR-TEXT-color`, `--TOPBAR-LINK-color` and `--TOPBAR-LINK-HOVER-color`.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} With refactoring of boxStyles, buttons and the topbar, it is now possible to set colors of a button when its style is either `link` or `action`.

  This makes it possible to have differing colors between buttons and links. Coloring is now independently configurable for the topbar and the main content area with the new variables `--TOPBAR-BUTTON-color`, `--TOPBAR-BUTTON-HOVER-color` as well as `--MAIN-BUTTON-color` and `--MAIN-BUTTON-HOVER-color`.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Links and buttons previously were styled based on the `--SECONDARY-color`. A differing color for hovering was implicitly available as `--MAIN-LINK-HOVER-color`. To make things easier for you, this was overhauled.

  The primary, secondary and accent colors now have available hover counterparts as `--PRIMARY-HOVER-color`, `--SECONDARY-HOVER-color` and `--ACCENT-HOVER-color`;

  Care was taken not to break your existing style variants, so you don't need to change anything if you are happy with the look of your current variant.

  All additions to the variables can be experienced in the [style variant generator](configuration/branding/generator). Have fun with it!

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Danish.