+++
title = 'Version 5.11'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -11

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.95.0'
+++

## 5.11.0 (2023-02-07) {#5-11-0}

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The theme removed the popular [jQuery](https://jquery.com) library from its distribution.

  In case you made changes to the theme that are depending on this library you can place a copy of jQuery into your `static/js` directory and load it from your own `layouts/partials/custom-header.html` like this:

  ````html {title="layouts/partials/custom-header.html"}
  <script src="{{"js/jquery.min.js"| relURL}}" defer></script>
  ````

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} [Mermaid](shortcodes/mermaid#parameter) diagrams can now be configured for pan and zoom on site-, page-level or individually for each graph.

  The default setting of `on`, in effect since 1.1.0, changed back to `off` as there was interference with scrolling on mobile and big pages.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The theme is now capable to visually [adapt to your OS's light/dark mode setting](configuration/branding/colors#adjust-to-os-settings).

  This is also the new default setting if you haven't configured `themeVariant` in your `hugo.toml`.

  Additionally you can configure the variants to be taken for light/dark mode with the new `themeVariantAuto` parameter.

  This is not supported for Internet Explorer 11, which still displays in the `relearn-light` variant.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The JavaScript code for handling image lightboxes (provided by [Featherlight](https://noelboss.github.io/featherlight)) was replaced by a CSS-only solution.

  This also changed the [lightbox effects](authoring/markdown#lightbox) parameter from `featherlight=false` to `lightbox=false`. Nevertheless you don't need to change anything as the old name will be used as a fallback.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} In the effort to comply with WCAG standards, the implementation of the [`expand` shortcode](shortcodes/expand) was changed. While Internet Explorer 11 has issues in displaying it, the functionality still works.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Czech. This language is not supported for search.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} [GitHub releases](https://github.com/McShelby/hugo-theme-relearn/tags) are also now tagged for the main version (eg. `1.2.x`), major version (eg. `1.x`) and the latest (just `x`) release making it easier for you to pin the theme to a certain version.
