+++
title = 'Version 5.15'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -15

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.95.0'
+++

## 5.15.0 (2023-05-29) {#5-15-0}

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} Restored compatibility with Hugo {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.112.0{{% /badge %}} or higher. This does not change the minimum required Hugo version.

  The [`attachments` shortcode](shortcodes/attachments) has compatibility issues with newer Hugo versions. You must switch to leaf bundles or are locked to Hugo < `0.112.0` for now.

  It is [planned to refactor](https://github.com/McShelby/hugo-theme-relearn/issues/22) the `attchments` shortcode in the future. This will make it possible to use the shortcode in branch bundles again but not in simple pages anymore. This will most likely come with a breaking change.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`tabs` shortcode](shortcodes/tabs) has changed behavior if you haven't set the `groupid` parameter.

  Formerly all tab views without a `groupid` were treated as so they belong to the same group. Now, each tab view is treated as it was given a unique id.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The already known `tabs`has a new friend the [`tab` shortcode](shortcodes/tab) to make it easier to create a tab view in case you only need one single tab. Really handy if you want to flag your code examples with a language identifier.

  Additionally for such a use case, the whitespace between a tab outline and the code is removed if only a single code block is contained.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Besides the _tag_ [taxonomy](configuration/customization/taxonomy) the theme now also provides the _category_ taxonomy out of the box and shows them in the content footer of each page.
