+++
title = 'Version 5.16'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -16

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.95.0'
+++

## 5.16.0 (2023-06-10) {#5-16-0}

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The theme now provides warnings for deprecated or now unsupported features. The warnings include hints how to fix them and an additional link to the documentation.

  `DEPRECATION` warnings mark features that still work but may be removed in the future.

  `UNSUPPORTED` warnings mark features that will not work anymore.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The 404 error page was revamped. Hopefully you will not see this very often.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`tabs` shortcode](shortcodes/tabs) and the [`tab` shortcode](shortcodes/tab) received some love and now align with their style, color, title and icon parameter to the other shortcodes.

  The visuals are now slightly different compared to previous versions. Most noteable, if you now display a single code block in a tab, its default styling will adapt to that of a code block but with a tab handle at the top.

  Additionally the `name` parameter was renamed to `title` but you don't need to change anything yet as the old name will be used as a fallback. Nevertheless you will get deprecation warnings while executing Hugo.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The theme now optionally supports [separate favicons](configuration/branding/logo#change-the-favicon) for light & dark mode.
