+++
title = 'Version 5.22'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -22

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.95.0'
+++

## 5.22.0 (2023-10-02) {#5-22-0}

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} This release fixes an issue where in unfortunate conditions DOM ids generated by Hugo may collide with DOM ids set by the theme. To avoid this, all theme DOM ids are now prefixed with `R-`.

  If you haven't modified anything, everything is fine. Otherwise you have to check your custom CSS rules and JavaScript code.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} You can now have structural sections in the hierarchical menu without generating a page for it.

  This can come in handy, if content for such a section page doesn't make much sense to you. See [the documentation](configuration/sidebar/menus#disable-menu-entries) for how to do this.

  This feature may require you to make changes to your existing installation if you are already using _[shortcuts to pages inside of your project](configuration/sidebar/menus#displaying-pages-exclusively-in-a-hugo-menu)_ with a _headless branch parent_.

  In this case it is advised to remove the `title` from the headless branch parent's front matter, as it will otherwise appear in your breadcrumbs.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} It is now possible to overwrite the setting for `collapsibleMenu` of your `hugo.toml` inside of a page's front matter.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} If a Mermaid graph is zoomable a button to reset the view is now added to the upper right corner. The button is only shown once the mouse is moved over the graph.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} It is now possible to remove the root breadcrumb by setting `disableRootBreadcrumb=true` in your `hugo.toml`.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The output of the dedicated search page now displays the result's breadcrumb.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Table rows now change their background color on every even row.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Swahili. This language is not supported for search.
