+++
title = 'Version 5.24'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -24

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.112.4'
+++

## 5.24.0 (2024-02-28) {#5-24-0}

### Hugo 0.112.4

- {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.112.4{{% /badge %}} This release requires a newer Hugo version.

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The topbar button received a way to add text next to the icon. For this, the original `title` option was renamed to `hint` while the new `title` option is now displayed next to the icon.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The front matter option `menuTitle` is now deprecated in favor for Hugo's own `linkTitle`. You don't need to change anything as the old `menuTitle` option is still supported.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The light themes have a bit more contrast for content text and headings. Also the syntaxhighlighting was changed to the more colorful MonokaiLight. This brings the syntaxhighlighting in sync with the corresponding dark theme variants, which are using Monokai. If you dislike this, you can create your own color variant file as [described here](configuration/branding/colors#modifying-variants).

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} If the theme can not resolve a link to a page or image, you can now generate warnings or errors during build by setting `link.errorlevel` or `image.errorlevel` to either `warning` or `error` in your `hugo.toml` respectively. By default this condition is silently ignored and the link is written as-is.

  Please note that a page link will generate false negatives if `uglyURLs=true` and it references an ordinary page before {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.123.0{{% /badge %}}.

  Please note that an image link will generate false negatives if the file resides in your `static` directory.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} You now can configure additional options for every theme variant in your `hugo.toml`. This allows for optional [advanced functionality](configuration/branding/colors#theme-variant-advanced). You don't need to change anything as the old configuration options will still work (but may generate warnings now).

  The advanced functionality allows you to set an explicit name for a theme variant and now allows for multiple auto mode variants that adjust to the light/dark preference of your OS settings.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} New partial for defining the heading. See [documentation](configuration/customization/partials) for further reading.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Support for Hugo's built-in [`figure` shortcode](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure).

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} On taxonomy and term pages you can now use prev/next navigation as within the normal page structure.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} In additiion to the existing [menu width customization](configuration/sidebar/width), it is now also possible to set the width of the menu flyout for small screen sizes with the `--MENU-WIDTH-S` CSS property.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Improvements for accessibility when tabbing through the page for images, links and tab handles.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The `editURL` config parameter is now [overwritable in your pages front matter](authoring/frontmatter/reference). In addition it received more versatility by letting you control where to put the file path into the URL. This is achieved by replacing the variable `${FilePath}` in your URL by the pages file path. You don't need to change anything in your existing configuration as the old way without the replacement variable still works.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The themes [config](configuration/reference) and [front matter](authoring/frontmatter/reference) options received a comprehensive documentation update. In addition the theme switched from `config.toml` to `hugo.toml`.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Restored compatibility with Hugo versions {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.121.0{{% /badge %}} or higher for the [`highlight` shortcode](shortcodes/highlight). This does not change the minimum required Hugo version.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Restored compatibility with Hugo versions {{% badge style="hugo" %}}0.123.0{{% /badge %}} or higher for theme specific output formats and handling of taxonomy and term titles. This does not change the minimum required Hugo version.
