+++
title = 'Version 5.4'
type = 'releasenotes'
weight = -4

[params]
  disableToc = false
  hidden = true
  minHugoVersion = '0.95.0'
+++

## 5.4.0 (2022-11-01) {#5-4-0}

### Change

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} [With the proper settings](configuration/sitemanagement/deployment) in your `hugo.toml` your page is now servable from the local file system using `file://` URLs.

  Please note that the searchbox will only work for this if you reconfigure your outputformat for the home page in your `hugo.toml` from `json` to `search`. The now deprecated `json` outputformat still works as before, so there is no need to reconfigure your installation if it is only served from `http://` or `https://`.

- {{% badge style="change" %}}Change{{% /badge %}} The [`button` shortcode](shortcodes/button) has a new parameter `target` to set the destination frame/window for the URL to open. If not given, it defaults to a new window/tab for external URLs or is not set at all for internal URLs. Previously even internal URLs where opened in a new window/tab.

### New

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} The [`math` shortcode](shortcodes/math) and [`mermaid` shortcode](shortcodes/mermaid) now also support the `align` parameter if Markdown codefences are used.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Support for languages that are written right to left (like Arabic). This is only implemented for the content area but not the navigation sidebar. This feature is not available in Internet Explorer 11.

- {{% badge style="new" %}}New{{% /badge %}} Translation into Finnish (Suomi).
